And when you look at how much the market
reacted, they didn't react that much. I
mean, bond deal went up five or six bips
yesterday on the 10-year and the stock
market is is down 2%. I mean, it's it's
it's uh it's not exactly uh an
earthquake. Uh and and so I do think
that um the market is very rational and
essentially discount a lot of the noise
and look through it the day where u the
market is really concerned about
something. The second point I think is
the currency barely move. I mean I was
looking at euro and sterling this
morning. I mean we we we flat as a
pancake
>> and so the move away from the dollar.
Yes. As uh a a secular trend. The fact
that you want to diversify away from the
dollar makes makes sense and you want to
have other currency than the dollar but
the dollar remains the real reserve
currency of the world. [music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Thoughts [music] podcast. I'm
Tracy Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> Joe, it's back.
>> What's back?
>> It's back.
>> They're back. Um, no, it's
>> the bomb vigilantes are back.
>> The cell America trade.
>> Oh, the cell America trade. Various
flavors of what the back could have
been, but all seem to be converging at
once.
>> Yeah, I should have been more clear. Um,
so we are recording this on January 21st
and this comes a day after we saw a
pretty big sell-off in the market. What
was interesting about that sell-off is
it was a trifecta of US assets. So you
have the S&P 500 down,
>> bond yields up, and the dollar index
down as well. And so obviously people
are talking about is this the start or
the restart of the sell America trade?
All of this is coming in the context of
Trump's threats against Greenland. Lots
of geopolitical risk. And I should also
just mention we are recording this.
Literally at the end of this discussion,
Trump is due to speak at Davos. I don't
know why we do this to ourselves, right?
>> So all of this could change on a dime
within like 60 minutes, but there's a
lot going on.
>> Yeah. And it probably won't change on a
dime. And the reason is because while
yes it is true that probably the um you
know tensions in Europe over Greenland,
NATO etc are very important. Mark Carney
having given a pretty extraordinary
speech yesterday. There's also the Japan
element and the rising bond yields in
Japan which is related to you know I
don't know economics 2.0 perhaps with
the uh new prime minister and so forth.
And so then part of the story yesterday,
and you mentioned the trifecta sell-off,
but part of the story yesterday, fairly
sharp um increase lately in uh long-end
rates in the US and uh Japan. The
40-year bond in JGB, which never existed
up until like 2007, apparently hit 4%
for the first time in history. Um you
know, we were looking at sub4% 10-year
rates uh as recently as October in the
US, actually maybe even as recently as
December. Now we're closer to 4.3 again.
So like you know those people who keep
thinking like mortgages are going to
like come down etc. It's not looking
like it. So there is a lot going on in
terms of potential theoretical drivers
etc. But the important thing is that
rates uh at the long end keep pushing up
and people seem to be avoiding
traditional safe havens.
>> Well this is the debate right? So Scott
Bessant uh in Davos, like a lot of
people at the moment, he thinks the US
Treasury selloff was just, you know, the
Japan effect.
>> Yeah.
>> And others think it's a geopolitical
risk premium. So, you know, we need to
get into all of this.
>> And we have the perfect guest. Really,
the perfect guest. We're going to be
speaking with Manny Roman. He is, of
course, the CEO of PIMCO. So, Manny,
thank you so much for coming on All
Thoughts.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> Why don't we start with that last
question? when you're looking at bond
yields today, how much of that do you
see as the geopolitical risk premium um
versus just a follow-through from the
Japan sell-off?
>> Well, I think I think the honest answer
is it's a mix of both, but um when you
look when I was listening to you and
when you look at how much the market
reacted, they didn't react that much. I
mean, bond deal went up five or six pips
yesterday on the 10-year and the stock
market is is down 2%. I mean it's it's
it's uh it's not exactly uh an
earthquake. Uh and and so I I do think
that um the market is very rational and
essentially discount a lot of the noise
and look through it. The day where u the
market is really concerned about
something you're going to see a much
bigger reaction.
>> That's the first point. The second point
I think is
>> um the currency barely move. I mean, I
was looking at euro and sterling this
morning. I mean, we we we flat as a
pancake.
>> And so, the move away from the dollar,
yes, as
uh a a secular trend, the fact that you
want to diversify away from the dollar
makes makes sense and you want to have
other currency than the dollar, but the
dollar remains the real reserve currency
of the world. And so I take all of this
with a grain of salt and and and you
know we we we animals in in the best
possible way and we look at the screen
and we tend to overreact to what we hear
and so on and so forth. I was uh I was
thinking about this last night looking
at the S&P 500.
>> You were thinking about how you're an
animal looking at the screen.
>> I was thinking about exactly I wasn't in
a moment of being an animal looking at
the screen last night. It did occur to
me as like, okay, S&P had fallen 2% on
Tuesday the 20th.
>> However, in the context of an incredible
year and a credible 15 years, a
credible, it's not that much.
Nonetheless, I guess it's the confluence
of headlines coming together. It's like,
oh, I'm going to like pay attention to
this 2% down day. But even but I and I
take I certainly take your point. These
are modest moves in the grand scheme of
things. On the other hand, this upward
pressure that we continue to see on the
long end of curves. Setting aside one
week or whatever, whether we're talking
about Japan, the US, elsewhere, like
what is the bigger story that we're like
taking from that?
>> Well, I think I think Japan is quite a
quite a peculiar situation. So, okay,
let's talk about Japan. Let me start
with the US cuz it's the it's the
easiest thing. Look, rates have been
essentially in a range for the past year
and a half. And I think I think the
Treasury and the Fed would be very
focused on the long end of the curve.
And I think that fixed income offers a
real good entry point in terms of
investment. I mean, we talked about the
S&P. The S&P is very expensive.
Investors are going to look at, you
know, long-term fixed income and say, I
can make six or 7% holding holding a
basket of fixed income. That looks
really attractive. And so I think every
time yield back up you see money coming
back. Uh you know I talk about pimco the
flows have been incredibly good over the
past 12 months. You know people have
come and bought us asset and and the
trend is very is very clear. Nothing is
changing and we have people basically
saying I can get you know equity like
return using fixed income. And for as
long as that remains the case I I think
the [snorts] rates are very bounded in
terms of where they're going to go.
>> Okay. Japan is a very uh specific
situation. I just came back from Japan
last week.
>> Oh, great.
>> I mean, you feel you feel bullish. I
think everyone you meet uh is bullish
equity. Uh you know, I started my career
in 1987. It's the first time that I see
the Nikk above when I started.
[laughter] Uh I mean, it's it's it's
it's unbelievable. But yes, you know,
there is for the first time inflation
and the long of the curve uh is is
probably going to go higher. And that's
probably overall um a good thing. Now
the super secular trend is the
demographic pressures are a real
problem. A real problem. But the I think
one of the thing we try to do is look at
the liquid instruments. So the 40-year
JGB may not be the most liquid
instrument. The 10ear JGB is a really
>> sure I agree. The 40 year they're
probably hardly trading
>> and and you know the same goes in the
US, right? And you really want to look
at the tenure. The 30 is a bit of a
>> Yeah. different story.
>> Um you mentioned US treasuries trading
in a band and this is something I wanted
to talk about because you know before
yesterday the nonmovement in the bond
market was really remarkable. So the
move index is at its lowest since I
think like 2021. That's the bond
volatility index. And if you look at the
30day trading range for 10-year
treasuries, that was at the tightest
since the 1970s, which is pretty
remarkable. What has that lack of
volatility been like for a big bond shop
like PIMCO?
>> It's a funny thing. We do like
volatility because with volatility comes
alpha,
>> right? And so we do like the opportunity
to provide liquidity and add interesting
position to our portfolio for sure, but
we need to scale up and scale down the
risk depending on what's happening in
the market and depending on the
opportunity. And so we just came back
from a very strong period of
performance. Um this is going to be
plenty to do. Uh and it may be on name
specific, it may be on macro trend. I I
do think that a competitive edge is not
to be able to predict day-to-day what's
going to happen to the market. Our
competitive edge is to have structural
position to think about where value is
to optimize our portfolio to think about
the downside risk. You know that's what
we know how to do and you know it's an
interesting market. Some things are
cheap you know I would say rates are
cheap and some things are rather tight.
you know investment grade are probably
rather tight but in structural product
and mortgages there's a lot to do
>> so you have this environment where you
can build portfolio and sort of feel
reasonably comfortable that you will
perform over the next 12 to 24 months
let's talk about uh go back to Japan
since you just got back from Japan and
actually I don't think we've done an
episode on Japan since the election of
the new prime minister but tell us a
little bit more I mean why now what's
going on you say everyone feels bullish
etc Tell us a little more color of what
you learned in your trip to Japan.
>> Well, I mean, look, we have a we have a
big Japanese we have a big Japanese
office and there are people in Pimo who
knows a lot about a lot about this. I
mean look it's a it's it's for 20 years
Japan has tried to restart inflation
[snorts] and uh for 19 years it really
hasn't worked
>> and then all of a sudden they managed to
get somewhere in a labor market which is
fairly tight where immigration is a
problem
and where when you go there I think
there's a clear desire
um to monitor immigration and the new
prime minister uh is uh has been very
vocal about making sure that um there's
a limit in terms of labor force moving
into Japan. Now over the medium term
that's a problem but when you look at
the inflationary pressure it's pretty
clear that there's more inflation in
Japan that there has been for the
longest possible time. Now the second
thing is I think you see other factor in
Japan that you haven't seen in a long
time. I was surprised
by the fact that you have much more
activism in the stock market people to
try to take ownership in company trying
to turn them around breaking down
conglomerate.
>> It's not the first time I hear that.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> But I think this time it's certainly
more real than it has been. And then
when you think of the AI robotic trend,
you know, the one thing Japan knows how
to do is to make things and to make
sophisticated uh product and and I think
that all of a sudden there is a
competitive edge that Japan has uh in
terms of a number of stock which looks
attractive. Forget about whether they
price you know right or or wrong but in
terms of business model they're quite uh
they're quite attractive. Um,
>> just on the bond sell-off, how much of
that is the return or expected return of
inflation versus debt sustainability
concerns? Because this is the other
thing that's been very longunning in
Japan. You always hear it's a heavily
indebted country. Is this, you know,
maybe the bond vigilantes finally
turning their attention to Japan? So I I
was I was talking with Rich Clarida
>> U who is our chief economist uh
>> friend of the pod as well.
>> Friend of pod. Yeah.
>> And I said to him I said you know we
tend to look at debt to GDP. What if we
look at debt to household savings?
>> And then you realize for both the US and
Japan that there's just a lot of money.
>> Yeah. in the US with the baby boomer, in
Japan with savers who tend to not to
spend enough. And if you believe in
fiscal policy and the fact that
eventually taxes will go higher, then I
think that the dynamic becomes quite
different and you can have higher
sustainability in terms of debt because
the ability to collect money is there.
Uh you look at the US for example
um you know you could have at some point
in time higher inheritance taxes this
$80 trillion of wealth in the baby
boomers eventually that will go to the
next generation but it will also go to
the state and it's a question of how
much goes to the state versus the next
generation but there is the ability to
tax more it also comes down I suppose to
the political capacity of the state to
tax because on math you say, "Look,
there's tons of private household
assets. We're we have far more uh wealth
than we do have debt as a society, and
therefore, it's just a matter of
channeling in the right place. But you
also need the politics to rebuild, which
actually gets me to a question that you
might have putting on the sort of like
CEO of a big asset manager hat. Um, you
know, in California, there's talk about
a wealth tax, etc. There's talk in um
there's talk in Europe about wealth
taxes. There's people talking about I
want to like set up my family office or
whatever somewhere in the Gulf and avoid
all this. What do you see on that front?
Do you see money moving in a significant
degree high high netw worth or ultra
high netw worth clients really thinking
about where their money is doiciled in a
different way? So,
you knew there was something good about
me is that I'm French and so I've seen
firsthand the experience of a wealth of
tax.
>> Yeah. Tell us more about that.
>> Well, it turned out to be a disaster
because uh the reality is people can
move and uh they decided to vote with
their feet and they didn't believe that
the government would keep the taxes at
you know historically 2 to 3% of wealth
and they decided to go to Belgium or to
Switzerland and to other places and so
on. So I think the evidence in terms of
how well wealth tax work is quite mixed.
Uh in California uh you can cross to
Nevada and uh decide you want to live in
Nevada. God forbid
>> but then you have to live in Nevada
>> but you got to live in Nevada but there
many other places and there's anecdotal
evidence of people moving to Austin and
doiciding themselves in Austin and so on
so forth. So I think one of the thing
about the US tax code is you have
competition among states in terms of
where people can reside um and so on so
forth. Now you know there's many great
things about California. We're based in
Newport Beach. We're happy to be in
Newport Beach. We pay high taxes. It's
all good. Um but um
>> but do you see in say California or even
on like right now are you getting you
know interest from are you hearing about
high netw worth clients
>> making these decisions right now or
thinking about that
>> uh all secondhand and all from uh all
from the tech industry? Yeah. And I read
the same news than you do. Okay. Uh I
don't I you know I'll be honest with
you. I never met Larry Page but uh I
understand he moved to to uh to Texas
and you know
>> and we by the way one of the thing we've
done really really well is we set up an
Austin office and it's been a great
success. So we have 500 people in
Austin.
>> It's a big business for us. Uh there's
there's a great university there which
produced a lot of grad in uh in STEM. Um
so that's my alma mater. So is it? So
thank you for saying that.
>> Here we go. 90% of the grad graduate
from uh UT stay in Austin. So you're one
of the exception cuz that was one of the
pitch one of the pitch.
>> I deserted my phone out.
>> But it's been a real it's been a real
good thing for us.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I want to go back to the sell America
trade and um dollar diversification
because one of the things that I think
contributed to the atmosphere yesterday
was we saw a headline about a Danish
pension fund selling its treasury
holdings. Um I think they have a hundred
million or something like that.
>> Not not mega,
>> right? So a drop in the bucket of the US
Treasury market, but the fact that a
pension fund is saying we're going to
get rid of all our exposure because
things are just too unpredictable
obviously feeds into concerns about
again that geopolitical risk premium.
When you see a headline like that, what
goes through your mind?
>> Well, uh that there's an upset Danish
pension plan. uh for reason that I think
we can we can understand. Uh but that in
the large scale of thing represents
absolutely nothing. And um
you know one of the thing when you when
you work for PIMCO that you see is
country with high savings rate
and low population Canada Australia need
the US to put capital to work because
the local market is too small.
So imagine for example that you are one
of the superanuation in Australia. The
reality is you need the US to put money
to work. Your local market is too small.
You're not going to put 50% of your
assets in Asia and Europe. I don't know.
I mean, I'm European. Uh there's many
things that I love about Europe, but the
investment opportunity
um may not be as exciting as as as it
should be. Uh we haven't seen growth
over the past six years. U it's a
problem. So
you know the other trend which is
happening exactly at the same time that
we've been very involved with is the AI
buildup
>> and the fact that at the same time you
you have the cell America at the same
time you have an enormous amount of
money um coming into AI and data center
and building building up a whole new
ecosystem and that I think will provide
exciting investment opportunity for
plenty of people. Um, and so you have to
weigh the two and and the micro versus
the politics. And you know, if I was a
guessing man, I think the micro the
macro wins.
>> Nonetheless, I'm going to still try to
go you into the politicsish
question because we're very flattered
that you come came to visit us here at
our offices in New York City. But it's
hard not to note that you're not in
Davos right now. I was there in 2015.
and I got a flu so I vowed to never go
again. What's your excuse?
>> Oh my my excuses I think I mean look I I
>> I I always say my partner Dson who was
on your pod months ago and I look our
life our life belongs to a client. We
here we here to manage the firm. We're
here to sort of Davos.
>> Yeah. This is what they this is why a
lot of them are saying oh I go to Davos
because this is where my clients are.
>> Networking.
>> Yeah. Networking. Why is Jamie Diamonds
there? He would say my clients are here.
I got to meet with them. See why what's
your
>> simple people we we mind we mind the
shop we mind the shop and look I I
people make different decision and so on
and so forth and I I I
given what's happening in the market
given everything else I think we're glad
we're glad we're in the office
>> I love being in the office that being
said Tracy wrote about this yesterday in
our newsletter you know it's hard the
the the conversations that are happening
in Davos they're pretty serious I mean
Mark Carney talking about this sort of
it's time for us to not be a rupture.
It's time to us to not we can't be
nostalgic about how the world was five
or 10 or 30 years ago etc. But it's hard
markets don't like when we markets don't
usually price in geopolitical turning
points or when they do it tends to be in
an Lshape etc. Surely you're like
thinking about these things
>> all the time and look uh Mark Connie is
a friend he used to be on a global
advisory board. I think he's a fantastic
human being and a great prime minister
for Canada, but I will read the
transcript of his of his of his speech
at the same time. You will
>> and I understand the predicament that
the question is how much Canadian bonds
do I want to own and how much Canadian
dollar do I want to own and you know
information is very very efficient.
>> I I and the reality is is Mark says to
everyone at the same time what he thinks
and that's the way it should work. How
do you actually factor in geopolitical
risk into the way you manage your
portfolios? Because this seems to be
something that investors understandably
struggle with, especially since a lot of
the outcomes are so binary, right? It's
like, well, either the US takes over
Canada or the US doesn't take over
Canada.
>> I think I think we we try to be
incredibly humble and say where do we
have an edge? And the reality is if the
three of us sees the exact same thing at
the same time, we don't have an edge. I
think we really really try to understand
politics. We have one of my partner DB
Canrell is solely focused on US
politics. She does a great job. We
>> we care but we care about micro issues
that may not make it to a pod. We care
about mortgage reform. We care about
>> Yeah.
>> You know what actually what can the
president do in terms of Greenland? The
reality is he needs twothird of the
Senate and Congress approval. That's a
seems like a lot, you know. So, so we
care about smaller things and often we
said, look, we we don't know anything
that the market doesn't know and so we
shouldn't build position based on on
politics because the reality is is we
all see the same thing at the same time.
>> And and and in some markets, you know, I
come back to currency.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, you look at the big currency,
it's the most efficient market in the
world. I mean I mean if you look
statistically they're incredibly hard to
predict. I mean you look at you look at
time series of you know dollar yen or
dollar sterling or dollar euro and so
on. I mean it is it is as close to white
noise as anything can be. So you build a
portfolio. Yes there is a theme that the
dollar may get weaker in which case you
want to have other currency. You know we
like the Australian dollars. We like we
like um we like uh you know the British
pound. Why? Because the economy is
slowing down and you have high rates and
so there's plenty of room to cut. and
you say to yourself that's something you
want to own but you know how much of
your portfolio it is 20 25% something
like this it cannot be 100
>> what do you make of the relentless bid
in gold
>> I I am honestly these things where I
just give up and I say really
>> and I say I don't understand that's one
of them I really
>> yes totally
>> say more
>> uh well uh I believe that assets are
being moved by two factor valuation and
momentum so the momentum in
is incredibly strong. Uh I I see it goes
up every single day. Uh someone is
buying it. Uh maybe it's CTA, maybe it's
individual, maybe it's central bank. I
don't know. Uh when I don't understand,
I stay on the sideline. Um by the same
token, I don't really understand crypto
and that's okay. Yeah,
>> I think you know when you when you're in
asset management, the one thing you need
to know is sort of stick to your
knitting and do what you know how to do
and when you don't understand sort of
said, "Okay, that's that's not my my
gig. I shouldn't be doing this. Um,
other people other people understand it
better than I do."
>> Um, I think you gave us a very polite
prompt earlier to talk about mortgages
and mortgage reform and we should do
that because I know that PIMCO has been
very bullish on mortgages recently. I
see a Bloomberg headline just from last
week saying PIMIMCO sees mortgage rates
easing on Fanny Freddy purchases. Those
are part of the Trump administration's
efforts to bring down mortgage rates.
But of course, at the same time, you
know, we started out this conversation
talking about the 30-year yield, which
is ticking up.
>> How are you thinking of, I guess, those
two tensions in the market? So, the
efforts on the political side to bring
rates down versus bond yields,
longerterm bond yields that seem to, you
know, be be pretty stuck at high levels.
>> That's right. That's right. Look, um I
it's a complicated tension
and
the
if you put yourself into the shoes of
the US administration,
what looks clear to me is you want
mortgage rate to be lower rather than
higher. And for that
uh part of it you control and part of it
you don't. And it's inflation
expectation. It's the shape of the curve
and it's discipline. And whether they
get there or not, I don't know is the is
the is the short answer.
>> The m, you know, 30-year mortgages and
the whole mortgage ecosystem looks cheap
and there's plenty to to buy and it
looks attractive. Yes, we do think that
um, you know, the purchase will help uh,
in terms of valuation, but um, I don't
you know, I don't know what I don't
know. um you have midterm coming in
November. You know, it's too early to
have any intelligent thing to say.
>> One of the things that we heard last
night, um or one of the things that
we've heard over the past several weeks,
the administration wants to make it
harder for big asset managers to buy
single family homes. That might have
something to do to actually do anything
like that. Might have to go through
Congress. But we did get an order last
night or a statement last night from the
White House talking about Fanny and
Freddy putting bigger constraints on
large institutional investors. Like what
do you make of some of these I don't
know populist inspired impulses to sort
of change the ass the the distribution
of who could buy what assets?
>> Not much.
>> Okay. Why
>> is the is the is the honest well I mean
look uh you know we don't do that but
there is you know some people do build
to rent you know
>> and they all they said build to rent
exact so I think that's already pretty
big chunk of like what this whole
phenomenon is
>> and and look it's hard work I mean it's
it's it's you know can can the the US if
you look at it from a macro standpoint
has a shortage of house right so we need
more more homes and the re the reality
is when you look over the 30-year period
the only places where cost haven't gone
down is building
>> you know and the reality is we need more
cheap houses especially in affordable
housing and that's a policy that I think
would be quite good but it's not because
um you know institution uh shouldn't own
single house you need more houses you
need people to be able to afford proper
houses and that's true I think in a lot
of states and there are states like you
know Texas for example where you have
plenty of face and you look at the cost
of housing and it's going down and you
have you know states like California
where it's really complicated
>> you need the robots to build houses
right so okay speaking of robots AI has
come up a couple times in this
conversation one of the interesting
things that's happening in the credit
market right now is that AI is becoming
a much bigger force when it comes to
investment grade debt so lots of big
companies issuing even more into that
particular market how how does Does that
change the credit market if at all for
you? How are you thinking about the
increased I guess exposure or presence
of AI in something like I IG?
>> Well, I think you reported we try not to
talk about single positions, but you
reported that we got involved into a
very large uh 20 plus billion dollar
transaction for uh to build data center.
Um and um some of these deals are going
to be incredibly attractive and some
won't be. Uh and so I think we I think
what's really interesting is the big
data center
user may actually be double A or better
rated company. And so um Oracle or Meta
or any of these company actually have a
capital structure where they may need a
lot of money but the money is backed by
market cap if you use a merant model
which is you know above a trillion
dollars and so they're pretty safe
investment and so that's pretty unique.
Um, and so size is a competitive edge
that plays well to our strength. And so
we position ourselves to have plenty of
capacity to do it if and when it comes.
And then some people like Microsoft and
Google probably can do it with their
cash and build up the cash and don't
need to issue debt to be able to do it.
So different people will go with
different uh strategy.
>> My understanding is you made a pretty
chunky return already on um that data
center deal. And I've heard in the
market that since since you did that,
everyone wants to come in and finance
data centers. Are you seeing a lot of
copycats or competition in the space to
get on these new deals?
>> Well, not everyone can take $25 billion
of a dealer.
>> True.
>> And so I always say, you know, one of
the things with Dan that we constantly
think about is what's our competitive
edge? And we're big. So, and we do one
thing. We do fixed income in all shapes
and form. And so we always say we're
going to make money where um our
strength are and that's clearly one of
our strength.
>> It's good to be PIMCO when it comes to
new issuance for sure.
>> It is good to be pimco when it comes to
new issue where we were part of the
structuring working with in this case
Morgan Stanley and we understood the
credit quite well and it was something
which fit into a portfolio. It may be it
may very well be that the next one
doesn't fit into what we do in which
case we'll pass. Uh and
>> returns to scale are such a common uh
such a common theme in our discussions
last night. size per se as a competitive
advantage which is not always the case
because sometimes you like to hear oh
we're small and nimble but it seems like
in many of these things we're talking
about these days size is huge you know
just like from the perspective of CEO
and you know this conversation sort of
blends the line of like what I would
think of as a CEO discussion and CIO
discussion right when we're talking
about rates it's a CIO discussion when
we're talking about where you have
offices in Austin that's kind of a CEO
discussion
from the perspective of of CEO like
where else are you putting your chips
besides you mentioned Texas and there's
okay there's some migration
>> I think Asia I think Asia I think
>> I think um all the high growth market
from a CEO standpoint is quite
interesting so we have a great Asian
business
>> um and when you look at the population
the savings rate and what it will be 10
years from now I think it is incredibly
important that we do extremely well in
Asia. And so we have offices in Japan,
Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan,
Australia
and they're doing great. Uh and the
buildup of wealth um is really really
important and that's before we start
talking about China. And so if you use
if you look at the super secular
horizon,
Asia will become significantly bigger
than Europe in terms of the amount of
money for asset manager and where the
opportunity set is and I think that's
pretty clear to me.
>> Do you anticipate mainland China ever
being a real a bigger opportunity?
>> I hope so. I hope I hope the market the
market offer a level playing field at
some point in time and something that
all of us feel comfortable investing in.
>> What would make you feel comfortable? Is
it just the easing of capital controls
or
>> easing of capital control the rules in
terms of setting up proper trading
operation? Uh
all of these things um and and and and
you know you can I always say you can
break the world differently. So you look
at our business
>> Yeah. I can break it and say you have
high growth region Middle East,
Australia, Canada, Asia where they all
have the same the same uh
characteristics. They have high growth
uh and high savings rate and those are
you know usually pretty good for asset
manager.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you have mature market like US
and the UK where you'd be happy to grow
at 5%.
um because you know there's nothing
really new happening uh and the market
is a market you may take market share
you may lose market share but the
secular growth in the markets is is sort
of wellnown
>> and what about in the Gulf
>> I think the Gulf is very exciting I mean
I always make this joke if you close
your eyes and you take a direct plane
from LA to Abu Dhabi so as you know
we're in Newport Beach
>> uh honestly you you think you think you
want around the world and kind of come
back.
>> Abu Dhabi is the LA of the world.
>> Is it?
>> No, it's very similar to Newport Beach
actually. People are super friendly. Uh
they they've done a really really good
job.
>> Super friendly, great weather and the
most interesting culture and
intellectual hubs that you can think of
when I associate Abu Dhabi and Newport
Beach.
>> I mean Abu Dhabi Abu Dhabi is I mean
once again over the super secular trend.
I think the Middle East has come a long
way and I think you you also had
>> you have a new generation of uh of
investment professional locally trained
and locally raised which is pretty good
and so you know once again that's I
think that's quite good um you know and
then there's what we don't know you know
uh everything happening with Iran and
whether Iran is is
>> something will happen or not and you
know I think the honest answer is no one
knows
>> I uh lived in Abu Dhabi for two years
and I always likened it to Texas in that
it's hot all the time and you spend a
lot of time a lot of your time at the
pool and at the shopping mall and that's
pretty much it.
>> Oh, that could be uh that could be
California.
>> Exactly. Um since we're on sort of CEO
executive level topics just on AI, this
is a question we've been asking a lot of
our guests, but how are you
incorporating AI if at all into your own
workflow and organization? Oh, I think
we I think for us the sort of defensive
and offensive opportunity. So,
uh the defensive one uh it should
increase significantly productivity in
terms of everything we do from um the
way we manipulate document, the way we
create marketing, the way uh we optimize
our trade to function. I mean remember
every time we buy a bond it goes into
many different account and every single
account has different parameters
different restriction
it's all goes to a custodian it gets
split it has best x all of these things
is a complicated factory
anything which makes the factory simpler
more efficient and safer is a really
really good thing will help to do this
We
spend a lot of time discussing NDA and
things like this where honestly
it's probably fair to say that we have
better things to do. And so if AI gets
us to a more efficient and less costly
um solution, that's good. I always say
if AI allows us to reallocate resource
more in R&D than in repetitive minial
function that we don't need to do that's
good I think compliance will also
benefit quite a bit from uh AI and the
ability to do deep learning and sort of
figure out whether the trend whether we
miss something whether you know look at
every possible situation I think that's
also quite good and then there's the
offensive part where you sort of said
okay can I use um large language model
to try to extract from data insight and
opportunity that I may have missed and I
think on this some of it will say okay
that doesn't work yes uh you know we've
analyzed uh every single sentence from
the Fed and every single uh transcript
and you know we found nothing that we we
didn't know and then sometimes we may uh
we may find things that um are new and
allows us to have an additional alpha
and um
I do think that large language model
have a competitive edge when you have a
lot of data which don't necessarily
match perfectly. So when it's, you know,
in the mortgage market, you have your
house, your mortgage, your credit score,
a picture of your house, your insurance,
um your employment history, your
communication with your mortgage
provider. All of these things I think
should give us a finer [snorts]
assessment in terms of what's happening.
And then the more data you have, the
more of an edge presumably you get. Uh
but I think you I think you embark into
this journey being humble and sort of
hope that you know you you have a few
win
>> just on the I suppose defensive AI
because we just recorded an episode
talking about some of the coding models
and one of the and there's a huge theme
in the stock market specifically
um lots of sort of mid-level enterprise
software companies getting very hurt
because their clients are like maybe we
could buy this or maybe the AI we don't
need to like put in a sales ticket into
a system because they can have an AI
that just knows that tell the
salesperson to make a call etc on this
sort of basic blocking and tackling at
an asset manager you must have tons of
third-party enterprise software
contracts and seat negotiations etc at
that level do you see AI tilting the
playing field and said you know what
maybe we could build this feature
trivially and we don't need to pay this
per seat license or anything like that
are you seeing this in action
>> I I think you're totally right. I think
that um all of us have apps that we use
and software that we use that we don't
love and that cost too much money and
we'll try to replace them. Uh and some
of them you'll be able to replace
quickly and some of them you won't.
>> Uh but I
>> that's an effort. There's like that's a
real thing.
>> In-house development. Is that something
you're doing already?
>> Sure.
>> Interesting.
>> And I think uh to link that back to the
market.
>> Sure. There's been
quite a
quite a high level of activity in
private equity in software because the
cash flow were deemed to be
>> predictable
>> with high leverage.
It would be interesting to see what
happened to the returns of this software
company for the years to come. There'll
be winners and loser,
but the top line of some of the software
company will be interesting. And I know
that Dan is worried about the software
industry in terms of risk and every
single credit we own, we look at it with
an air length and say if AI is as
gamechanging as we think it is, what
would it what would it do to this
business model? And I think that's a
perfectly reasonable question
>> uh in terms of what what it may do.
>> Um you mentioned the Fed uh a little
earlier and I realized we've gone this
entire conversation without actually
talking that much about the US central
bank. Um but let's rectify that now. So,
one of the remarkable things about the
bond market recently is even though
there have been concerns and headlines
around central bank credibility and
possibly um pal, you know, coming under
criminal indictment and all of that, the
bond market hasn't really reacted that
much. Again, it's been trading in a very
narrow range. Um we've also seen tips
and other inflation related bonds
basically not incorporating any of what
you would think would be these political
risks. Do you worry at all about
credibility of the central bank as a big
bond buyer? I think we are I think we
believe in Fed independence
and as we often say I haven't met many
politician who wants higher rate and so
there's two level in economic policy
there's monetary and fiscal you want the
fed to be in charge of monetary policy
and
>> I I think the good news is whoever gets
the job as head of the Fed enters into
to the history book.
I think the
the weight of the function is such that
people tend to make very rational
decision. It doesn't mean that they're
always the correct one, but you're not
going to see a situation where
with a reading of inflation they make
totally suboptimal decision for
political reason. And I think it's very
hard,
>> you know, you think we're far from that.
>> I think it's very hard to do.
>> Okay.
>> And you have a voting process. I think
when your chief economist tells you
you're crazy, it's just really difficult
to kind of go against this. Now, one,
you know, maybe once you can kind of
look through the data and say, I do
think the data are going to become
better. Here's why.
>> Mh.
>> But it's a really, really dangerous
game.
>> Also, once you lose credibility,
um, you really lose credibility. Yeah.
And I I often say I think everyone has
looked at the list situation in the UK
>> and how when you do something borderline
crazy in literally 5 days you can
destroy your credibility on the bond
market and you have to move at the speed
of light and with the Bank of England to
be able to correct uh when rates go up
literally 100 bips. And so and so I do
think they are the market punishes you
and punishes you really hard if you try
to do something which um
which it doesn't want.
>> All right, last question for me because
you mentioned Liz Truss. Why is it that
um Liz Truss is like okay this was like
a dangerous thing. It was like reckless
etc. Whereas
new prime minister of Japan comes in
takes talks about reflationary policies
and you describe it's like everyone's
excited about Japan right now. What is
the difference between the inflationary
impulse that Liz Truss was expected to
have uh accelerated with the mini budget
versus maybe the more benign reflation
that you're mostly describing as a sort
of positive development in Japan?
>> Well, I think I think what happened is
she gave this whole tax package at the
same time. So she wanted, you know,
there was like this liberalization at
the same time a tax package where
clearly someone hadn't kind of figure
out the ma the very basic math in terms
of what it did to uh government
government spending and then all of a
sudden you had a huge deficit that the
market s and say oh my god there's no
way you can do this this is not
realistic and and and the back end of
the curve just went crazy. I mean at
some point in time fiscal policy really
really matters and and and you know look
I I you know one of the thing about
being European is is is you look at
fiscal policy quite a bit because that's
that's been one of the core uh lever of
uh of uh economic policy and and and
somehow I think I think the left hand
and the right hand forgot to talk to
each other and they came up with a
package which made no sense and and
clearly hadn't been blessed by the UK
Treasury and and and and the market
reacted incredibly strongly to that.
>> Um, I'll ask one more question which,
you know, I think when it comes to
PIMCO, I I think it's often
underappreciated how much of PIMCO is
about those sort of overlays on top of
the fixed income positions. And so I
have to channel my inner Bill Gross here
and ask, are you selling volatility into
this particular environment? Well, I
think I think we um I think we look at
volatility all the time and I think when
uh when we find opportunity to sell
volatility, we do uh and it's a source
of ala. I think we've done it for a very
long time and you know sometimes we
sometimes we think it's attractive and
sometimes uh we think it's less
attractive and we you know I'm not going
to talk about opposition but uh but it
is it is a source of risk premier and I
think I think we we focus on it. I think
we to kind of
come back to this. We hit single, right?
And I think what makes
our performance is really the work of
300 people on the Dyn. But we hit a lot
of single well and when you put all this
single together, the result is pretty
good. the great man coming down from the
mountain and thinking that all these
great macro trend are going to happen.
That doesn't quite work. Uh it's it's
really about being incredibly
disciplined and essentially making a bit
of money every single day with various
different level. Uh and
>> maybe I demystify what uh what we do but
I think I think it's actually a lot of
work and that is why it works and it's
repeatable. You know, I always say to a
fund manager, why do you think you can
make money? Question number one.
Question number two, why is it
repeatable? Why do you think you can do
it again?
>> And the great idea and the great man
coming from the mountain, I was the
table of the lows. I'm not entirely sure
it's that repeatable because sometimes
you get lost in the burning bush and,
you know, other things and so on. And
>> these are very evocative images.
>> Yeah. you know, I'm I'm an evocative guy
and and and I I do think repeatability
is is is is really really important. You
want to make the process as industrial
as possible and sort of said, okay,
those are all the lever I have and on
average this is going to be pretty good.
>> All right, Manny Roman, thank you so
much for coming on. It was pleasure.
That was fantastic. Thank you so much,
>> Joe. That was a really enjoyable
conversation and I like uh straddling
the CEO and CIO worlds. It was
interesting to get that perspective. You
know, one thing I saw right before we
recorded this episode, um, people were
talking about the Bank of America Global
Fund Manager Survey.
>> Oh, is that out today?
>> I don't think it's out, but in the last
one, relatively recently, I think
geopolitical conflict topped the list,
which, you know, kind of expected. But
then the second concern, the second
biggest concern was a disorderly rise in
bond yields.
>> Interesting. So like 19% of respondents
had that down as their like topt tail
risk in January. That's pretty
interesting to me and the atmosphere
feels a little bit different because
people are so primed for this particular
event.
>> Totally. You know the thing that I keep
thinking about is we just have this
combination right now be of like all
right so like and we've we didn't ask um
Manny this directly but it's like this
fundamental question. Why does the
neutral rate appear to be higher than it
used to be? Right.
>> And there's two big things going on,
which is there's a lot of public
spending because of remilitarization and
that's related to geopolitics, this
desire for national self-sufficiency
across a range of technological and
commodities and so forth. So there's
like tons of spending and
we're throwing sand in the gears of
trade. So that spending is less
efficient than it otherwise would have
been, right? So for a dollar of spending
maybe only 75% does actually contribute
to the economy and 25% is waste etc. So
these are two things going on at once.
And so like I certainly take Manny's
point and I think it's totally right
there. So you can't one day you get a
blip and it's like it's not the end of
the world and you have to like train
yourself to like not overthink a single
day. On the other hand, rates around the
world remain despite rate cuts etc and
despite arguably a slowdown
significantly above where they were pre.
>> There's a direction of travel.
>> There's a broader direction of travel
that strikes me as very intuitive given
the the simultaneous phenomenon of like
less efficient trading systems and more
spending.
>> All right, I see Trump is uh giving his
address at Davos. So shall we leave it
there? Uh the the another man from the
man I wait can I just say I loved
Manny's like man of the mountain. I feel
in finance we're always talking about
men of the mountain coming down with
their wisdom. Yeah.
>> Um so I love that. But yes, we should go
listen to a man literally in the
mountain right now.
>> Mountain men in Davos
>> and hear what he has to say.
>> All right, let's leave it there. This
has been another episode of the thoughts
podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman, Dashel
Bennett at Dashbot, and Kaleb Brooks at
Kalebrooks.
>> And for more OddLots content, you should
definitely check out our daily
newsletter. You can find that at
bloomberg.com/odlots.
>> And you can chat with fellow listeners
247 in our Discord, discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then leave a comment or like the video,
or better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.